commonmark_games/looters.md, before:

---
title: "Looters: A Treasure-Stealing Game"
author: Sam W
---

# Theft

It's what you're all about. You're out to take all the treasure and leave none behind. Barons, wizards, merchants all got something you want.

# You

are a greedy looter. To shape your game experience, give yourself a name and choose or roll three skills that will help you in your mission. If you don't find three you like, make up your own.

1. Acrobatics
2. Dueling
3. Brawling
4. Sniping
5. Disguise
6. Lying
7. Tracking
8. Evasion
9. Magic
10. Lockpicking
11. Pickpocketing
12. Poison Identification
13. Trap Setting
14. Trap Disarming
15. Architectural Eye
16. Navigation
17. Climbing
18. Forgery
19. Languages
20. First Aid
21. 

Skills may allow extra capabilities or grant boons in rolling.

Additionally, come up with 3 weapons, tools, or items that you start with. 

# Looting

The looters describe their actions. If an action is not obviously successful, roll 2d6 and add +1 for each relevant skill and gear. The Referee may then name situational disadvantages that prevent success, subtracting 1 from the roll. The Referee then rolls 2d6, and whoever has the higher total (roll and bonuses) gets to describe the outcome.

Looters have 4 HP, which could be boosted with appropriate gear, such as armor. A weapon usually can deal 1, or maybe 2, HP of damage. Beyond that, powerful weapons can effect the characters in ways beyond just HP.

It's fun if you have a reason for looting: owing someone money, or looking to retire early.

Commit message:

finish skills + magic and some ref advice

commonmark_games/looters.md, after:

---
title: "Looters: A Treasure-Stealing Game"
author: Sam W
---

# Theft

It's what you're all about. You're out to take all the treasure and leave none behind. Barons, wizards, merchants all got something you want.

# You

are a greedy looter. To shape your game experience, give yourself a name and choose or roll three skills that will help you in your mission. If you don't find three you like, make up your own.

1. Acrobatics
2. Dueling
3. Brawling
4. Sniping
5. Disguise
6. Lying
7. Tracking
8. Evasion
9. Magic
10. Lockpicking
11. Pickpocketing
12. Poison Identification
13. Trap Setting
14. Trap Disarming
15. Architectural Eye
16. Navigation
17. Climbing
18. Forgery
19. Languages
20. First Aid
21. Moving Silently
22. Outdoor Survival
23. Ambush
24. Dodging
25. Beast Identification
26. Translation (language of your choice)
27. Reflexes
28. Mechanical know-how
29. Driving
30. Appraisal

Skills may allow extra capabilities or grant boons in rolling. Come up with some archetype that fits your skills: ninja, boxer, outdoorsman, etc.

Additionally, come up with 3 weapons, tools, or items that you start with. You also may take some initial cash (enough for a few days' living).

# Looting

The looters describe their actions. If an action is not obviously successful, roll 2d6 and add +1 for each relevant skill and gear. The Referee may then name situational disadvantages that prevent success, subtracting 1 from the roll. The Referee then rolls 2d6, and whoever has the higher total (roll and bonuses) gets to describe the outcome.

Looters have 4 HP, which could be boosted with appropriate gear, such as armor. A weapon usually can deal 1, or maybe 2, HP of damage. Beyond that, powerful weapons can effect the characters in ways beyond just HP. A sacrifice of equipment or a condition may reduce damage.

It's fun if you have a reason for looting: owing someone money, or looking to retire early.

# Magic

You can only cast magic innately if you have taken the magic skill. If you cast innately, you can only use the +1 from the magic skill on the roll. Objects with magical power may be used by anybody, but not without a roll.

Choose a domain: physics, weather, biology, psychology, chemistry, oceanography, geology. 

Describe the effect you would like manifest, and both sides roll. Should the looter fail to manifest their desired effect, it backlashes as the Referee specifies.

# Ref Guidelines

Be permissive in starting gear to allow players to shape their game experience. While playing, be tough but fair in what happens. Be ready to improvise, keep only a loose idea of what might happen.
